= GUI for Ruby on Rails

Practical and easy to use GUI made with jQuery UI for Ruby on Rails.

Status : Working on !

== Used Tools

* {Ruby 1.8.7}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/] + {Rails 2.3.12}[http://rubyonrails.org/]
* {MySQL}[http://www.mysql.com/] Used database.
* {Bundle}[http://gembundler.com/] Used to manage the application's dependencies.
* {jQuery}[http://jquery.com/] + {jquery-ujs}[http://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs] ( jQuery.rails.js ) instead of Prototype to handle the AJAX requests and JavaScript stuff.
* {jQuery UI}[http://jqueryui.com/] UI built on top the {jQuery}[http://jquery.com/] JavaScript Library.
* {Action Mailer}[http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v2.3.11/action_mailer_basics.html] This will allow us send and receive emails from the application.
* {Exception Notifier}[http://github.com/smartinez87/exception_notification] Plugin to provides a mailer object for sending email notificactions when errors occur.
* {Warden}[http://github.com/hassox/warden] General Rack Authentication Framework needed to work with {Devise}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise].
* {Devise}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise] Flexible authentication solution for Rails with {Warden}[http://github.com/hassox/warden].
* {CanCan}[http://github.com/ryanb/cancan] Authorization Gem for Ruby on Rails.

== Getting Started

NOTE : These instructions were made assuming that you already have installed and running {Git}[http://git-scm.com/], {MySQL}[http://www.mysql.com/], {Ruby 1.8.7}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/], and the {Bundle}[http://gembundler.com/] gem.

Go to your {Rails}[http://rubyonrails.org/] projects folder and clone this project :

    git clone git://github.com/glendel/GUI-for-RoR.git my_new_folder

Then :

    cd my_new_folder

Rename and edit according to your particular settings the "{application.sample.yml}[http://github.com/glendel/GUI-for-RoR/blob/master/config/application.sample.yml]" and the "{database.sample.yml}[http://github.com/glendel/GUI-for-RoR/blob/master/config/database.sample.yml]" files by something like "application.yml" and "database.yml".

Now lets install the needed gems using the {bundle}[http://gembundler.com/] command ( please refer to the "{Gemfile}[http://github.com/glendel/GUI-for-RoR/blob/master/Gemfile]" file for more details about the used gems ).

    [sudo] bundle install

NOTE : Windows users better use the "mysql" gem instead of the "mysql2" in order to avoid an error building the gem with native extensions.

== Quick Start

If everything has gone fine so far and you have already the this application with its "required" gems, let's create and migrate the database :

    rake db:create
    rake db:migrate

NOTE : If you are a Windows user and you are having this error : "193: %1 is not a valid Win32 application." please go {here}[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1208029/193-1-is-not-a-valid-win32-application-bug-with-a-new-rails-application] for the solution.

Now we are going to load into the database some seeds with values by default needed for the proper initial operation of the application ( please refer to the "{seeds.rb}[http://github.com/glendel/GUI-for-RoR/blob/master/db/seeds.rb]" file for more details about the initial data that will be loaded ).

    rake db:seed

== Useful Documentation

* {Ruby on Rails Guides}[http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v2.3.11/]
* {Bundle for Rails 2.3.x}[http://gembundler.com/rails23.html]
* {Devise for Rails 2.3.x}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise/tree/v1.0#readme]
* {Devise Wiki}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise/wiki]
* {CanCan Wiki}[http://github.com/ryanb/cancan/wiki]

== Useful Railcasts

* {Episode 238 - Unobtrusive Javascript}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/205-unobtrusive-javascript]
* {Episode 201 - Bundler}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/201-bundler]
* {Episode 104 - Exception Notifications}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/104-exception-notifications]
* {Episode 209 - Introducing Devise}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/209-introducing-devise]
* {Episode 210 - Customizing Devise}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/210-customizing-devise]
* {Episode 192 - Authorization with CanCan}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/192-authorization-with-cancan]
* {Episode 179 - Seed Data}[http://railscasts.com/episodes/179-seed-data]

== Reference Articles

* jQuery Menu :
   * http://jquery-ui.googlecode.com/svn/branches/labs/fg-menu/index.html
   * http://www.filamentgroup.com/lab/jquery_ipod_style_and_flyout_menus/
   * http://wiki.jqueryui.com/w/page/12137997/Menu
   * http://docs.jquery.com/UI/Menu